[Do Not Merge] Update how to extend Ballerina for specific webhooks (#1338)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-www: website/two-column-pages/docs/learn/how-to-extend-ballerina.md

# How to Extend Ballerina

> Developers and third parties can extend the behavior of Ballerina and collate the customizations for use by others. There are three ways to customize the behavior of Ballerina:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers and third parties can extend the behavior of Ballerina and collate the customizations for use by others. There are three ways to customize the behavior of Ballerina:
```
1. Do we need to say "third parties"? 
2. Saying "collate the customizations for use by others" is not very clear. Shall we make it more simple as follows:

Developers can customize Ballerina by extending its behaviors. There are three ways of doing this:

> 1. Collate and distribute new client connectors to third party endpoints, such as databases, infrastructure and APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Collate and distribute new client connectors to third party endpoints, such as databases, infrastructure and APIs.
```
1. The idea of saying "Collate and distribute" is not very clear.
2. We don't need the comma after endpoints.
3. Need the serial comma after infrastructure.

> 2. Add new annotations to Ballerina source files so that the compiler can act to alter binaries and generate artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add new annotations to Ballerina source files so that the compiler can alter binaries and generate artifacts.
```
Normally, it is a good practice to remove additional words.
Alter which binaries? The idea is not very clear.

> 3. Collate and distribute new webhook callback services, that programmatically subscribe to accept content delivery requests on the occurrence of particular events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Collate and distribute new webhook callback services that programmatically subscribe to accept content delivery requests on the occurrence of particular events.
```

Normally there wouldn't be a comma before "that" in this context.

## Create Client Connectors

> A client connector is instantiated by developers when they create an `endpoint` object within their code. You can create your own connectors that are part of Ballerina modules that you push into a Ballerina registry, such as what is available at Ballerina Central.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client connector is instantiated when you create an `endpoint` object within the code. You can create your own connectors as Ballerina modules and push them into a Ballerina registry so that they will be available at the Ballerina Central.
```

1. The [Ballerina file defining the annotation](https://github.com/ballerinax/kubernetes/blob/master/kubernetes-extension/src/main/ballerina/ballerinax/kubernetes/annotation.bal).

2. The [Java code with the builder extension](https://github.com/ballerinax/kubernetes/tree/master/kubernetes-extension/src/main/java/org/ballerinax/kubernetes).

## Create Webhook Callback Services

A webhook callback service type is introduced by implementing a new `listener` type wrapping the generic 

> `websub:Listener`. The implementation should define a mapping between an indicator in the content delivery requests 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`websub:Listener`. The implementation should define a mapping between an indicator in the content delivery requests,
```

Author: do we need the comma here? the mapping is between content delivery requests and resources.

> and the resources to which the requests need to be dispatched based on the value of the indicator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the resources, to which the requests need to be dispatched based on the value of the indicator.
```

> This indicator based on which the extension is done could be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This indicator, based on which the extension is done, could be:
```

> This indicator based on which the extension is done could be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This indicator will be based on the extension as follows:
```

- A request header 
- The payload - the value for a particular key in the JSON payload
- A request header and the payload (combination of the above)
 
The [ballerina/websub Module.md](stdlib/websub/src/main/ballerina/websub/Module.md) explains the extension points in detail.
 

> You can create and share your own webhook callback service types as part of Ballerina modules that you push into a Ballerina registry, such as what is available at Ballerina Central.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create and share your own webhook callback service types as Ballerina modules and push them into a Ballerina registry so that they become available at the Ballerina Central.
```

Author: Not sure if we should add the "and" here.

The sharing is done by pushing the modules to a registry.

> To create a webhook callback service type, you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to create a webhook callback service type.
```

1. Create a Ballerina module in a Ballerina project.

2. Create a new `listener` wrapping the generic `websub:Listener`.

> 3. Implement the `__init()` function, specifying the mapping between possible notifications and resources as `extensionConfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Implement the `__init()` function specifying the mapping between possible notifications and resources as `extensionConfig`.
```

> 4. Implement the `__attach()`, `__start()` and `__stop()` functions, calling the same functions on the generic `websub:Listener`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Implement the `__attach()`, `__start()` and `__stop()` functions calling the same functions on the generic `websub:Listener`.
```

> 5. Build the module and push it into a registry for usage by others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Build the module and push it into a registry for others to use it.
```

### The GitHub Webhook

A GitHub webhook implementation is made available by WSO2 as the module `wso2/github`.

> This webhook can be used by anyone, by importing the `wso2/github` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This webhook can be used by anyone by importing the `wso2/github` module.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/io;
import ballerina/websub;
import wso2/github;

// Initiate a new listener of type `github:WebhookListener`.
listener github:WebhookListener githubListener = new(8080);

> // Attach a service accepting ping, issue opened and repository starred notifications.

Reviewer: starred or started?

        io:println("[onPing] Webhook Registered: ", event);
    }

    resource function onIssuesOpened(websub:Notification notification, github:IssuesEvent event) {
        io:println("[onIssuesOpened] Issue ID: ", event.issue.number);
    }

    resource function onWatch(websub:Notification notification, github:WatchEvent event) {
        io:println("[onWatch] Repository starred by: ", event.sender);
    }
}
```

### The `WebhookListener` Object

The `WebhookListener` object that is implemented as a `listener` for the GitHub webhook callback service.

```ballerina
public type WebhookListener object {

    *AbstractListener;

    public WebhookListenerConfiguration? webhookListenerConfig = ();

    private websub:Listener websubListener;

    public function __init(int port, WebhookListenerConfiguration? config = ());

    public function __attach(service s, map<any> data) returns error?;

    public function __start() returns error?;
    
    public function __stop() returns error?;
};
```

### Implement the `__init()` function

For the GitHub webhook, the mapping between events and resources could be based either only on a header or on both a header and the payload.

e.g.,

> - when the repository is starred, the content delivery request received would have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the value set to "watch"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- when the repository is starred, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the value set to "watch".
```

> - when an issue is opened, the content delivery request received would have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- when an issue is opened, the content delivery request received will have the header `X-GitHub-Event` with the 
```

> value set to "issues", and the `json` payload would contain the value "opened" for the key "action"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value set to "issues", and the `json` payload will contain the value "opened" for the key "action"
```

> The implementation of the `__init()` function, initializes the `websub:Listener`, specifying the mapping to the resources as the `extensionConfig`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation of the `__init()` function initializes the `websub:Listener` specifying the mapping to the resources as the `extensionConfig`.
```
